## General Configuration Section

Arikedb server configurations are divided in some sections. Lets break down the general section, its parameters and all the options to set them up.

InN the `config.toml` file, you can find this parameters under the section `[general]`. A basic example configuration of this section is:

```toml
[general]
logger_level = "info"
data_dir = "/var/snap/arikedb/common"
log_timestamps = false
license_path = "/var/lib/arikedb/license.key"
```

### Logger level
For Docker deployments it can also be set using the env variable `ARIKEDB_LOG_LEVEL`

This parameter defines what kind of messages generated by the server will be showed in the console. Possible options are
 - error
 - warn
 - info
 - debug
 - trace
In that order, messages with same severity or higher will be showed. For example, if the server is configured with level `info` then only the `error`, `warning` and `info` messages will be showed.

### Data Dir
For Docker deployments it can also be set using the env variable `ARIKEDB_DATA_DIR`

Directory to store all persistent data. In Snap deployments it needs to be accessible by the snap confinement. Arikedb snap has a `strict` confinement (see [Snap Confinement](https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-confinement)). So we recommend in this type of installation always keep the default value: `/var/snap/arikedb/common`

### Log timestamps
For Docker deployments it can also be set using the env variable `ARIKEDB_LOG_TIMESTAMPS`

Defines if the lines logged by the server will include the timestamp at the beginning of the line. For Snap is recommended to keep it as false since in this case linux systemd generates its own timestamps for logs printed in console.

### License Path
For Docker deployments it can also be set using the env variable `ARIKEDB_LICENSE_PATH`

If you have a valid license officially generated by Arikedb (currently unavailable until first official version gets released) it will define the limits of collections and variables per collections you will be able to create. If no license file is present, a default license will be deployed with a total of 4 collections and 25 variables per collection.

[Back](../README.md)
